A welcome back to a really exciting in my opinion exciting section on a topic that I personally love
as a developer I also love to teach it.
It's fun and it combines a lot of the things we've learned.
It's also a little dangerous or sketchy or morally grey.
So we'll talk about ethics and a little bit.
It's just a fun topic and that topic is web scraping.
So before we actually talk about what that is what it means and dive into the code.
Let's just quickly run through our objectives.
As always there's only a couple.
First we want to define what web scraping actually is and we'll talk about some of those issues around
it.
Well then dive into code and use both the requests module that we've already seen and something called
beautiful soup which we haven't seen and we'll use them together to download and parse him out.
Then we'll explain and go over some common issues with web scraping.
So not not the same as these issues these are the ethical issues here down here.
We're going to talk about some technical problems that can arise when you're scraping.
And then finally we'll talk about some other tools in Python that you can use to kind of bolster your
web scrapers make things better potentially solve some of these problems.
OK.
So those are the objectives.
But in this video we're just going to focus on this first thing talking about what Scraping is and then
identifying some of the big issues around it.
Let's begin by just talking about what web scraping actually is.
And then why you would potentially do it.
So what is scraping.
Well Scraping is just the act of writing code in Python or any other language.
So it's you know Java Sea swift It doesn't have to be Python and the idea is to write code that programmatically
get data from a web page.
So there's you know millions of web pages out there.
They have data on them and there is usually an HMO.
Sometimes they come in the form of an API where we can get on data.
In that case we wouldn't scrape.
But if there is no other option and you need data and the only format you can find it in is actually
on a web page as HMO for humans to read.
We can still write code that is going to be able to scrape the data we want out of all of that complex.
Tim L So I'll show you an example in moment of why you would do this.
But there's really three main steps.
The first is we write Python code to go get a web page or we might automate it and have it get a thousand
pages an hour or more.
Usually we slow it down too so we don't to attract suspicion but the idea is that you get code or you
get H.T. mail back after you request it and then we have to parse through it and extract the data we
want and then do something with it whether we are manipulating the data or analyzing the data.
We're aggregating it.
We're putting in a database some sort of file.
We just do something with that data.
That's the whole idea.
We're trying to get data so that we can use it.
So that's a high level overview of what Scraping is.
But why would you ever need to do that or want to do it.
And this is where we start to get into that gray area I mentioned.
So why scrape.
Well let's say that you want some data from a website that doesn't provide it to you.
It doesn't provide an API application programming interface.
There's no easy way for you to write code to get just the data you want what you could do is scrape
the data off of that web page for example here is Craigslist.
We are not going to scrape Craigslist.
I'll explain why in a moment.
But if we wanted to hypothetically I wanted to do some analysis of rent apartment rentals two bedroom
apartments in San Francisco and charge them overtime or something.
Or I wanted to be able to understand you know when rents went up and down over the course of a year
what's the best best month historically for me to buy an apartment or to rent an apartment.
Is there a time that's cheaper at the holidays this summer that sort of thing to do that I need the
data.
And Craigslist doesn't have a nice API as far as I know that that allows you to do that.
You can use and just ask for you know give me all of your current apartments or give me all the apartment
rents from 2015 what we could do instead is write Python and ask that Python script to request this
web page.
And if this is all that we needed.
I mean remember this has aged him all that we're seeing as humans it's been displayed for us.
But if we view the page source this is our lovely mess of code we get all of this comes back and this
is where scraping gets messy.
We have to identify where the information is that we want.
And let's see if I can find an example.
Here's one listing I believe all of this and we have things like the date we have the title lovely home
with a beautiful garden view.
We have the price and twenty five hundred.
Here's another one bath top floor skylight with parking.
Four thousand ninety five.
The neighborhood.
And you can see that it's not only stored here it's stored reliable way.
So the neighborhood is always in this span if you haven't seen him all this might be a little bit difficult
but you should be able to pick up quick enough to understand that the neighborhood on every result is
always wrapped in this tag called spanne that says class equals result hood hood short for neighborhood.
Same thing up here.
Here's one class equals result Hood.
And then this is a neighborhood S.F. San Francisco State University slash Portola which it's called
Portola not Portola.
And just thought at that recently.
So there's all these you know information here.
We can request this web page get all of this data back and all of this extra crap that we don't want
if all I wanted were the rents.
Then this is a lot of work but we can do it it would work.
There's nothing making this this each time.
It's not private.
I mean that's the point is that we go to it as humans in the browser we see it.
There's nothing stopping our code from going here as well.
It takes a little extra work to finesse it and get what we want out of here but it's absolutely possible.
So to wrap that up you want data from a web page you want to analyze it you want to store it.
You maybe you want to steal it.
This is like I said this is the ethical part and you can't get it otherwise there is no API there is
no CSP file download you can't download a database containing all the information.
If that's the case you can scrape to get the data instead of manually.
I mean you could pay people a lot of money to go and just copy and paste things and put them in a file
for you.
But if you wanted to do this for every you know Craigslist has.
I don't know how many cities but a couple of thousand across the U.S. I'd imagine if you wanted to get
apartment rents in all of those cities every day you would need a lot of money and an army of online
clickers and copiers and posters.
So instead you can scrape and automate all of it.